JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
STEVE INSKEEP: And I'm Steve
Inskeep.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight:
dividing lines.
We examine how some of the
president-elect's
Cabinet picks have put distance
between his
views and their own.
STEVE INSKEEP: Also ahead,:
President Obama
leaves office in a week, and we
examine his
legacy in the Middle East.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And it's Friday.
Mark Shields and David Brooks
are here to
analyze the week's news.
STEVE INSKEEP: Plus, the
director of "Patriots
Day" tries to make a movie about
the Boston
Marathon bombing the right way.
PETER BERG, Director, "Patriots
Day": It's
a responsibility for making sure
that we understand
that these acts of terrorism
don't achieve
what the terrorists think
they're going to
achieve.
They don't destroy us.
They don't break us apart.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: President-elect
Donald Trump
today renewed his efforts to
discredit reports
that Russia has compromising
information on
him.
On Twitter, he said it's all --
quote -- "totally
made-up facts by sleazebag
political operatives."
And he said they were -- quote
-- "probably
released by intelligence'
agencies."
And there were new questions
about contacts
between Michael Flynn, Mr.
Trump's incoming
national security adviser, and
Russia's ambassador
to the U.S.
We will delve into that after
the news summary.
STEVE INSKEEP: That was part of
a busy morning
for the president-elect on
Twitter.
He also said his one-time
opponent Hillary
Clinton was -- quote -- "guilty
as hell" and
that the FBI was very nice to
her.
An inspector general is now
examining FBI
Director James Comey's public
statements about
his investigation of Clinton's
e-mails during
the campaign.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The U.S. Justice
Department
charged today that Chicago's
police have been
violating people's rights for
years.
The federal agency found
widespread use of
excessive force and racial bias
against blacks
and Latinos.
U.S. Attorney General Loretta
Lynch announced
the assessment in Chicago after
a year-long
probe.
LORETTA LYNCH, U.S. Attorney
General: Our
investigation found that this
pattern of practice
is in no small part the result
of severely
deficient training procedures
and accountability
systems.
It doesn't adequately review use
of force
incidents to determine whether
force was appropriate
or lawful, or whether the use of
force could
have been avoided altogether.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Chicago Mayor
Rahm Emanuel
called the findings sobering and
he pledged
new reforms.
STEVE INSKEEP: U.S. Marines may
finally get
help after drinking tainted
water at Camp
Lejeune.
The case goes back to the 1980s
at the famous
training base in North Carolina.
Testing found contamination from
fuel tanks
and a dry cleaner.
Hundreds of thousands of people
passed through
that base, and some developed
diseases like
leukemia, liver cancer, and
Parkinson's disease.
The Department of Veterans
Affairs says it
will pay up to $2.2 billion.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Japanese
company Takata
will plead guilty in a federal
investigation
of its air bag inflators, and
pay $1 billion
in fines and restitution.
Federal prosecutors announced
the plea deal
in Detroit.
And they said three former
Takata executives
have been indicted for a
cover-up going back
to 2000.
BARBARA MCQUADE, U.S. Attorney:
They signed
and submitted false reports of
test data to
their customers, and they
directed engineers
to falsify and manipulate data.
Even after the inflators began
to fail in
the field and injuries and
deaths were occurring,
these Takata executives
continued to withhold
the true data from its
customers.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The defective
inflators can
explode with too much force.
They are blamed for 16 deaths
and 180 injuries
worldwide.
STEVE INSKEEP: Today, the House
followed the
Senate in setting the stage for
repealing
Obamacare.
Lawmakers approved a rule which
allows big
parts of the law to be removed
with a simple
majority in the Senate.
The Republican majority still
has not agreed
on their long-promised
replacement for the
program, which provides health
insurance for
millions.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And Wall Street
had a fairly
quiet Friday the 13th.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost five
points to close at 19885.
The Nasdaq rose 26, and the S&P
500 added
four.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
how eight
years of Obama's foreign policy
shaped the
Middle East; Mark Shields and
David Brooks
on the week's news; Mark
Wahlberg's new film
recounting the Boston Marathon
bombing; and
much more.
STEVE INSKEEP: When
president-elect Trump
is inaugurated next week, he
inherits enormous
power.
During confirmation hearings for
his Cabinet
secretaries this week, senators
have taken
steps to limit that power.
They pressed the
president-elect's Cabinet
nominees to admit climate change
is real,
or that Russia is a threat, or
that torture
is illegal.
It's still considered unlikely
that the Senate
will reject his nominees, but
senators are
setting terms of employment for
the administration
ahead.
The terms are often different
than what Mr.
Trump proposed while
campaigning.
DONALD TRUMP (R),
President-Elect: I have
these guys, torture doesn't
work.
Believe me, it works, OK?
And water-boarding is your minor
form.
STEVE INSKEEP: That's what the
candidate said
in early 2016.
In early 2017, a Democratic
senator asked
Jeff Sessions, the nominee for
attorney general,
if torture is legal.
SEN.
JEFF SESSIONS (R-AL), Attorney
General Nominee:
Congress has taken an action now
that makes
it absolutely improper and
illegal to use
water-boarding or any other form
of torture
in the United States by our
military and by
all our other departments and
agencies.
STEVE INSKEEP: Sessions
effectively committed
himself to telling the president
the U.S.
can't do that.
Elaine Kamarck has written a
book on the presidency.
ELAINE KAMARCK, Former Senior
Adviser to Former
Vice President Al Gore: This is
the United
States Senate reminding
president-elect Trump
that there is a Constitution,
and the Constitution
has divided powers in it, and
that we are
a government of laws, not men.
STEVE INSKEEP: A president can
override the
attorney general, but it can be
politically
costly.
In 1973, Richard Nixon's
attorney general
resigned, rather than follow his
orders during
Watergate.
In 2004, George W. Bush's
attorney general,
John Ashcroft, rejected a secret
wiretapping
program.
This week, senators are asking
nominees if
they're ready to push back
against the president's
promises.
The president-elect has scorned
the Iran nuclear
deal.
DONALD TRUMP: Never, never,
ever, in my life
have I seen any transaction so
incompetently
negotiated as our deal with
Iran.
STEVE INSKEEP: His choice for
defense secretary,
James Mattis, was skeptical too,
but told
senators he favors keeping it.
GEN.
JAMES MATTIS (RET.), Secretary
of Defense
Nominee: Sir, I think it is an
imperfect arms
control agreement.
It's not a friendship treaty.
But when America gives her word,
we have to
live up to it and work with our
allies.
STEVE INSKEEP: Some of the same
allies work
with the United States on
climate change.
DONALD TRUMP: We're going to
cancel the Paris
climate agreement and stop all
payments of
the United States tax dollars to
U.N. global
warming programs.
STEVE INSKEEP: Rex Tillerson,
the choice for
secretary of state, said he'd
rather not walk
away from this issue.
REX TILLERSON, Secretary of
State Nominee:
I think it's important that the
United States
maintain its seat at the table
on the conversations
around how to address threats of
climate change,
which do require a global
response.
No one country is going to solve
this alone.
STEVE INSKEEP: This afternoon,
the president-elect
said he's not concerned about
these different
views.
DONALD TRUMP: No, that all gets
straightened
out.
We want them to be themselves,
and I told
them, be yourselves and say what
you want
to say.
Don't worry about me.
STEVE INSKEEP: But Paul Light,
who studies
presidential transitions, has
rarely seen
so much daylight between a chief
executive
and his nominees.
PAUL LIGHT, New York University:
They are
setting themselves up for
scrutiny.
If they violate their own
promises to the
Senate, it creates an issue with
the president.
The Senate isn't going to come
in impeach
and a Cabinet secretary.
But the media and outside groups
will put
pressure on the president to
force the resignation
or change his own policy.
STEVE INSKEEP: The Senate
hearings have also
reflected some senators'
anxieties about this
president.
SEN.
RON WYDEN (D), Oregon:
Congressman, during
the campaign, the
president-elect essentially
laid out something that looks to
me like outsourcing
surveillance.
STEVE INSKEEP: Consider the
hearing for Congressman
Mike Pompeo, now the nominee to
run the CIA.
Oregon's Ron Wyden asked if the
new president
might receive surveillance
information on
Americans gathered by Russia.
REP.
MIKE POMPEO (R), Kansas: It is
not lawful
to outsource that which we
cannot do under
-- the agency cannot do under
its laws.
That can be too clever by half.
SEN.
RON WYDEN: But that's not the
question.
You can't request the
information from a foreign
government.
We understand that.
But the question is, what
happens if it's
provided to you, especially
since it's being
encouraged?
REP.
MIKE POMPEO: Senator, my
understanding is
that the same set of rules that
surround the
information if it were collected
by the U.S.
government apply to information
that becomes
available as a result of
collection from non-U.S.
sources as well.
STEVE INSKEEP: Scholar Elaine
Kamarck, a Democrat
who's been critical of the
president-elect,
ended this week of hearings
feeling better.
ELAINE KAMARCK: I think the
nominees, in their
disagreements with Trump, what
they are doing
is, they are saying, almost
uniformly, we
will abide by the laws of the
land.
And that's pretty good.
Now, if, down the road, the
Congress wants
to change the laws of the land
well, we elected
them, and that is what we have
got.
STEVE INSKEEP: The nominees do
not differ
from the president on
everything.
Elaine Chao, the choice for
transportation
secretary, said she will support
the president-elect's
plan to buy American.
ELAINE CHAO, Secretary of
Transportation-Designate:
It is his policy, and, of
course, all Cabinet
members will follow his policy.
STEVE INSKEEP: Even though Chao
once wrote
that it was like digging a moat
around America.
There will be only one president
of the United
States, and his name will be
Trump.
By the way, both the House and
Senate have
passed the waiver for General
Mattis to serve
as secretary of defense.
It awaits the president's
signature.
Now, as we heard, Russia has
loomed over this
week of hearings.
Columnist David Ignatius has
been compiling
unanswered questions about each
of the players.
He is at The Washington Post.
And, David, first the
president-elect.
What's the question on your mind
about Trump?
DAVID IGNATIUS, Columnist, The
Washington
Post: Well, we had a week in
which Trump,
not surprisingly, pushed back on
unsubstantiated
allegations that were made.
What we need to know about Trump
and the Russian
hacking effort is, was there any
connection,
what's true and what isn't?
Trump is right to say we
shouldn't listen
to fake news or rumor.
We need an investigation in
Congress and I
think also by the FBI to
establish what is
true and not.
STEVE INSKEEP: What are your
questions about
contacts between the president
or his staff
and Russia?
DAVID IGNATIUS: Well, I wrote
something that
was, I think, new this morning,
saying that
Trump's choice for national
security adviser,
General Michael Flynn, had been
in contact
with the Russian ambassador,
Sergey Kislyak,
around the time, I said on the
day of, but
I think it was the day before,
the announcement
of sanctions against Russia,
expulsion of
35 diplomats.
The Trump campaign today
confirmed that, yes,
indeed, there had been a
conversation between
Flynn and Kislyak on December
28.
That's the day that it was in
almost every
major news outlet that sanctions
were on the
way.
The Washington Post had actually
written the
day before that they were
coming.
The question is, was it
appropriate to be
talking about future policies,
future conversations
between Trump and Putin on the
day that the
Obama administration was trying
to impose
sanctions?
STEVE INSKEEP: Because you can't
have two
presidents at a time, of course,
and President
Obama is still the president at
this moment.
DAVID IGNATIUS: Precisely.
STEVE INSKEEP: Now, you also
have a question
about President Obama.
DAVID IGNATIUS: So, there is a
question.
And the more we know about
Russian hacking,
we legitimately ask, why didn't
President
Obama do more to stop it?
Why didn't -- in the now we
realize months
in which the FBI, our
intelligence agencies
were looking at this threat, why
didn't the
administration take stronger
steps?
I think the administration is
the White House
was genuinely worried that if it
took steps,
it might escalate into much
sharper Russian
action that could actually
disrupt the election,
even the process of counting
votes on Election
Day.
STEVE INSKEEP: And what's your
question about
Russia?
DAVID IGNATIUS: Well, I tried in
my last question
to think the way a
counterintelligence analyst
at the CIA would think, looking
at this kind
of evidence.
Is it possible that the Russians
wanted this
information to come out, wanted
the unsubstantiated,
salacious information in the
dossier compiled
by a former British intelligence
officer to
come out?
Is the real goal that Russia has
had all along
to destabilize the American
political environment,
our political system?
I think you need to look at
every piece of
this with the most skeptical
eye.
STEVE INSKEEP: Who would you
trust, David
Ignatius, to answer those
questions?
DAVID IGNATIUS: Well, we have
institutions.
That's what our system is about.
I would trust the Congress.
I would trust a bipartisan
select committee
of the House and Senate.
I would certainly trust our law
enforcement
agencies.
We have experienced U.S.
attorneys.
We have FBI investigators.
We have intelligence officers.
I think they ought to do this,
they ought
to do it in their own time, in
secret.
It's not something to be hashed
out in the
press every day.
But I do think we need answers,
we need to
know what's true and what isn't.
STEVE INSKEEP: David Ignatius at
The Washington
Post, thanks very much.
DAVID IGNATIUS: Thank you.
STEVE INSKEEP: And just moments
ago, the Trump
transition team said that
incoming National
Security Adviser Michael Flynn
also spoke
with the Russian ambassador on
December 29.
That's the day the new sanctions
were announced.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Looking at
President Obama,
he came into office with a
desire to wind
down America's wars overseas and
step up the
focus at home, but events had a
way of intervening,
especially in the Middle East.
Tonight, we take stock of the
president's
record in that volatile region.
Margaret Warner begins our look.
MARGARET WARNER: Shortly after
taking office,
President Obama traveled to
Egypt to address
the Islamic world.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
I have come here to Cairo to
seek a new beginning
between the United States and
Muslims around
the world, one based on mutual
interest and
mutual respect.
MARGARET WARNER: Yet, eight
years later, the
broader Middle East is a far
more volatile
place than it was.
Scholar Vali Nasr joined the
administration
to deal with Afghanistan and
Pakistan.
He's now dean of the Johns
Hopkins School
of Advanced International
Studies.
VALI NASR, Dean, School of
Advanced International
Studies, Johns Hopkins
University: I think
President Obama came to office
with quite
fundamental understandings in
his mind about
what's possible and what's not
possible in
the Middle East.
The first, I would say,
revolutionary breakthrough
that he introduced is that the
Middle East
doesn't matter to American
geostrategy as
much as we think.
MARGARET WARNER: That view
colored the president's
approach to making good on two
of his campaign
promises: ending the U.S. war in
Iraq, and
investing more military
resources to Afghanistan,
where the Taliban was regaining
ground.
In Afghanistan, the military
reportedly wanted
up to 80,000 more troops, on top
of the tens
of thousands already there, to
mount an Iraq-like
counterinsurgency campaign.
The president ordered a review
of the entire
approach.
Michele Flournoy was the
undersecretary for
policy at the Defense
Department.
MICHELE FLOURNOY, Former Defense
Department
Official: There was a tug-of-war
between people
who had very ambitious,
transformational goals
in Afghanistan, and those who
argued for what
was sort of a good enough
solution for Afghanistan
and for achieving our limited
objectives.
MARGARET WARNER: And did the
president come
to that, as it was known, Afghan
good-enough
objective?
MICHELE FLOURNOY: Yes, I think
he did.
MARGARET WARNER: In December
2009, Mr. Obama
announced 30,000 more U.S.
troops for Afghanistan
and pledged that, in 18 months,
they would
start coming home.
Nasr believes Afghanistan marked
a pivot point
for him.
VALI NASR: President Obama
started by accepting
the military's
counterinsurgency, but came
out of Afghanistan having
decided that counterinsurgency
actually doesn't work.
MARGARET WARNER: Instead, the
U.S. turned
to counterterrorism, relying
more on drones
and special forces to target
terrorists.
In May 2011, that strategy
produced a fateful
raid on a compound in
Abbottabad, Pakistan.
BARACK OBAMA: The United States
has conducted
an operation that killed Osama
bin Laden,
the leader of al-Qaida.
MARGARET WARNER: To fulfill a
second campaign
promise, the president moved
briskly to withdraw
U.S. forces from Iraq, ending
the U.S. combat
mission in 2010.
Negotiations to leave even a
residual force
foundered in a dispute with
Iraqi Prime Minister
Nouri al-Maliki.
MICHELE FLOURNOY: When we
removed our forces,
we lost our ability to reassure
Maliki, to
influence Maliki, and, absent
that reassurance,
he took a very hard turn towards
sectarianism.
MARGARET WARNER: In early 2011,
the Arab spring
exploded.
One of the first targets was a
longtime U.S.
ally, Egyptian President Hosni
Mubarak.
After failing to persuade
Mubarak to plan
his own exit, Mr. Obama spoke.
BARACK OBAMA: An orderly
transition must be
meaningful, it must be peaceful,
and it must
begin now.
MARGARET WARNER: Derek Chollet
was a top official
in both the State and Defense
Departments
under President Obama.
DEREK CHOLLET, Former U.S.
Assistant Secretary
of Defense: The calculation was,
if Mubarak's
going to go anyway, what
position are we going
to put ourselves in to be able
to take advantage
or have any influence in a
post-Mubarak Egypt?
MARGARET WARNER: In Syria,
peaceful protests
in early 2011 against President
Bashar al-Assad
exploded into a full-blown civil
war.
In August, Mr. Obama said it was
time for
Assad to step aside.
But he resisted giving
mainstream rebels the
weapons they needed.
Derek Chollet said the chaos
that followed
the limited U.S. intervention in
Libya's uprising
affected the president's
approach to Syria.
DEREK CHOLLET: The initial
questions were
about, who was the Syrian
opposition, how
can we be sure that the
capabilities we provide
them don't end up in the wrong
hands?
MARGARET WARNER: That gave the
upper hand
to Assad's forces and Islamist
fighters.
In 2012, asked what could prompt
U.S. action
in Syria, the president issued a
now infamous
warning.
BARACK OBAMA: A red line for us
is, we start
seeing a whole bunch of chemical
weapons moving
around or being utilized.
MARGARET WARNER: One year later,
Assad's forces
killed 1,400 people in a
chemical weapons
attack on a Damascus suburb.
Plans were set for the U.S. and
French to
strike.
But, suddenly, President Obama
announced he
would seek congressional
approval first.
BARACK OBAMA: While I believe I
have the authority
to carry out this military
action without
specific congressional
authorization, I know
that the country will be
stronger if we take
this course.
MARGARET WARNER: With no action
by Congress,
Secretary of State John Kerry,
working with
his Russian counterpart, Sergei
Lavrov, pressured
Assad to surrender the chemical
weapons stockpile.
Michele Flournoy said the move
shook U.S.
credibility in the minds of some
allies.
MICHELE FLOURNOY: I personally
had allies
from Asia on my doorstep the
next day, asking
what Syria and the red line
meant for our
guarantees to them.
MARGARET WARNER: This week,
Kerry heatedly
defended the choice.
JOHN KERRY, U.S. Secretary of
State: Would
it have been better to bomb them
for two days
and not get all the weapons out,
and today
those weapons would be in the
hands of ISIL?
MARGARET WARNER: Kerry spent two
years with
Lavrov trying to get Assad and
the rebels
to a political settlement.
Then, 16 months ago, Russia
launched heavy
airstrikes in Syria to shore up
Assad.
And last month, with up to
half-a-million
dead, and a refugee crisis
swamping Europe,
the U.S. was on the sidelines as
Russia and
Turkey negotiated a fragile
cease-fire.
All this conflict also generated
a new threat,
the Islamic State.
In 2013, remnants of the
once-defeated al-Qaida
in Iraq moved into ungoverned
territory in
Syria.
They declared the Syrian city of
Raqqa as
their capital, then swept back
into Iraq,
capturing swathes of Sunni
territory.
In January 2014, President Obama
dismissed
is as a J.V. basketball team.
But after ISIS took Iraq's
second largest
city, Mosul, and threatened
Iraqi Kurdistan,
the U.S. began airstrikes.
The bombing campaign soon
expanded into Syria.
BARACK OBAMA: I can announce
that America
will lead a broad coalition to
roll back this
terrorist threat.
MARGARET WARNER: He would later
add U.S. special
forces, trainers and some troops
in Iraq and
Syria, where they remain today.
One goal President Obama
fulfilled was to
sideline Iran's progress towards
a nuclear
weapon.
Two years of negotiations among
Iran, the
U.S. and other world powers
produced a deal
in 2015.
Mr. Obama struck the deal over
strong objections
from Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu,
adding to tensions between the
two over other
issues.
Brookings institution scholar
Shadi Hamid
credits Mr. Obama for the Iran
deal, but says:
SHADI HAMID, Brookings
Institution: I don't
remember ever hearing a real,
live Arab say
that Iran's nuclear program was
their number
one concern or priority.
MARGARET WARNER: He also
believes the apparent
trade-off, making the U.S.
reluctant to enter
the fray in Syria, where Iran
was helping
Assad, wasn't worth it.
SHADI HAMID: In the Middle East,
we have learned
everything is interconnected,
and if we do
one thing in one area, it can
come at the
cost of something else.
MARGARET WARNER: One week from
today, dealing
with that web of conflicts will
fall to a
new commander in chief.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Margaret Warner.
JUDY WOODRUFF: For more on this
part of the
president's foreign policy
legacy, we turn
to three guests with deep
experience managing
national security policy and, in
some cases,
fighting the United States'
wars.
Retired General David Petraeus
commanded American
forces in Iraq, in Afghanistan,
and for the
entire Middle East.
He also served as President
Obama's director
of the CIA, a post he resigned
in 2012.
Ambassador Eric Edelman, he
served in a variety
of senior positions at the
Departments of
State and Defense, as well as
the White House,
and was a national security aide
for Vice
President Dick Cheney.
And Philip Gordon, he served in
the State
Department under President
Clinton and President
Obama, and he served as the
senior-most official
responsible for the Middle East
on Mr. Obama's
National Security Council staff
from 2013
to 2015.
Gentlemen, we welcome all three
of you to
the program.
It's a complicated region.
There's a lot to cover, but
let's focus on
three countries.
General Petraeus, to you first.
Iraq, how do you size up the
legacy of this
president, President Obama, in
Iraq?
GEN.
DAVID PETRAEUS (RET.), Former
CIA Director:
I think it's mixed.
Certainly, the developments of
the last couple
of years, when we have responded
to the actions
by the Islamic State, has
gathered a considerable
amount of momentum and actually
taken back
from the Islamic State all but
one of the
major cities, which is likely to
fall in the
weeks and months ahead.
But, prior to that, of course,
there was a
pulling out of our forces,
various explanations
for that and whether that would
have, if we
had been able to keep them,
could have given
us the influence to prevent the
ruinous course
that Prime Minister Nouri
al-Maliki pursued
that became highly sectarian and
created the
fertile fields for the planting
of the seeds
of extremism that the Islamic
State exploited,
before drifting into Syria and
gaining lots
of power in that civil war.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ambassador
Edelman, how do
you see the president's legacy
in Iraq?
ERIC EDELMAN, Former State
Department and
Defense Department Official: I
see it largely
as a lost opportunity.
When General Petraeus and our
mutual colleague
Ambassador Ryan Crocker
negotiated the agreement
in 2008, I think all of us
anticipated there
would be a residual U.S. force
staying after
December 31, 2011.
And I think we would have had
more influence,
we would have been better able
to help prevent
the rise of ISIS had we kept a
residual force
there.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And was that a
mistake?
PHILIP GORDON, Former U.S.
Assistant Secretary
of State: Well, I think you have
to remember
the situation at the time.
On balance, would it have been
nice to have
a residual force?
I think the answer is yes.
It also happens to be the case
that the Iraqis
very much wanted us to leave.
The Bush administration had
agreed that we
would leave by 2011, U.S. forces
shall leave
the country.
And so Obama was presented with
a situation
where you have the Iraqis asking
us to leave,
the U.S. public not wanting to
say, the Iraqi
parliament refusing to give the
immunities
we would need for our forces to
stay.
So, while it would have been
nice to have,
you can't pretend that the
president, that
President Obama could have just
somehow come
in and said, all right, we're
staying whether
you like it or not.
In that sense, one, it's kind of
a moot point
whether it would have been nice,
because it
wasn't possible.
But, two, I doubt, even though I
would have
rather seen some forces, that
even a residual
U.S. force, 5,000, 10,000, would
have been
enough to stop the very powerful
trends that
were going on in Iraq in terms
of sectarianism,
the rise of ISIS which was
emerging from Syria,
and all sorts of other things.
So, yes, it would have been
nice, but we should
remember the context in which
the president...
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you see...
GEN.
DAVID PETRAEUS: One of the
paradoxes now is
that we now have nearly 6,000
troops on the
ground.
And we do not have a
parliament...
JUDY WOODRUFF: In Iraq.
GEN.
DAVID PETRAEUS: We do not a
parliamentary-agreed
status of forces agreement.
Again, it's just one of the
ironies, the terrible
ironies of a country that has
suffered so
much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You want to
button this up
before we turn to another
country?
ERIC EDELMAN: Well, General
Petraeus made
the point I was going to make.
I think we could have made a
more serious
effort with the Iraqis.
I think they detected what
Philip was talking
about, which is that the
president really
didn't have his heart in it and
that the American
people were tired of a long and
difficult
war.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let's turn to
Afghanistan,
Phil Gordon.
How do you size up what the
president -- you
were in the middle of all this.
How do you size up what the
president did,
has done in Afghanistan?
PHILIP GORDON: On Iraq, General
Petraeus said
mixed.
I think mixed would probably be
our answer
for a lot of these questions
And I think, in Afghanistan,
that is probably
the right assessment there as
well.
It can't be better than mixed
because Afghanistan
is hugely dysfunctional.
The Taliban are still there.
I think, when the president
decided early
on to surge, he wanted to surge,
he just wanted
to deal with that threat and
frankly get out
and get out completely.
Well, the government is still
dysfunctional
and fractured, the Taliban is
there, and we're
not able to get out completely.
So, it's not positive for all of
those reasons,
but it's also not terrible,
because we have
achieved the minimal, which is
keeping the
government in Kabul in place and
fending off,
if you will, the Taliban.
JUDY WOODRUFF: General Petraeus.
GEN.
DAVID PETRAEUS: And if you
remember, the reason
we went to Afghanistan and the
reason we have
stayed is to ensure that
Afghanistan is not
once again a sanctuary for
al-Qaida or other
transnational extremists, the
way it was when
the 9/11 attacks were planned
there and the
initial training of the
attackers was conducted
there.
We have accomplished that
mission to date.
Yes, we have had to keep forces
on the ground
somewhere in the neighborhood of
10,000 or
so.
That wasn't the president's
plan.
I think we should give him
credit for backing
off the plan of pulling them all
out, which
would have unhinged the country,
and give
some credit to the Afghans as
well that they
are very much shouldering the
burden of fighting
and in many cases dying for
their country.
But it is a very challenged,
troubled, difficult
country, and has been throughout
its history.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ambassador
Edelman, Afghanistan?
ERIC EDELMAN: I largely agree
with what both
Philip and General Petraeus have
said.
I would say that I think the
president's decision
to set a timeline at the outset
of the surge
in Afghanistan...
JUDY WOODRUFF: Publicly.
ERIC EDELMAN: Publicly --
created difficulties
that made it, I think, a harder
row to hoe
for General Petraeus and General
Allen and
others who succeeded them.
I -- like General Petraeus, I
give the president
enormous credit for reversing
himself and
not insisting on a complete
withdrawal during
his time in office.
But I do think the new
administration is going
to be facing a very tough
situation.
And I agree with General
Petraeus.
We need to keep in mind that the
reason we
went there to begin with is not
to allow it
to be a kind of petri dish for
Islamic extremism
that seeks to attack the United
States.
GEN.
DAVID PETRAEUS: And my hope
would be that
there could be a sustained
commitment at,
again, a modest level that is a
sustainable
strategy in terms of...
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: You mean in the
next administration?
GEN.
DAVID PETRAEUS: Yes.
Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: General Petraeus,
you told
us that Syria, the last place I
want to ask
you all about, is a place in
which history
is going to judge this
administration most
harshly.
Why?
GEN.
DAVID PETRAEUS: Well, I think
what's happened
in Syria is that we have had
rhetoric that
has not, in the end, been backed
up by resources
and commitment, Bashar must go,
a red line
discussion of what a
humanitarian catastrophe
it was.
And, at the end of the day, we
haven't made
the very, very difficult -- and,
again, there
are no easy choices about Syria.
I was at the table.
There were never guarantees.
But we didn't take the very
tough decisions
that could have given us a
chance in some
of these cases, and where you're
pretty certain
that if there wasn't a decision
or not sufficient
resources, that it wasn't going
to succeed,
in the way that we defined
success at the
time.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Phil Gordon, why
was President
Obama right not to retaliate, do
something
in a military nature after
President Assad
crossed that red line?
PHILIP GORDON: Well, I actually
think he should
have done something of a
military nature after
he crossed that red line.
That was about chemical weapons.
And he said, if they used
chemical weapons,
he would respond.
But I don't think we should
confuse that with
the broader question of using
military force
to achieve our broader goals in
Syria, like
getting rid of the Assad regime.
And there, if your question is
why was he
right, I think people should be
very careful
not to assume there was some
modest use of
military force that would have
achieved the
objective of getting rid of the
regime and
putting moderates in charge of a
stable Syria.
In that sense, I think General
Petraeus is
right that there was a gap
between the rhetoric,
the ends and the means.
But the critique that somehow,
if only the
president had given more arms to
the opposition
or set up a no-fly zone, that
gap would have
been closed, I disagree with.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ambassador
Edelman?
ERIC EDELMAN: Well, the
administration's argument
for inaction in Syria was that
doing some
of the things that Philip just
suggested would
lead to greater violence,
greater extremism,
more radicalization, and in
general a worse
humanitarian situation in Syria.
However, there are consequences
to inaction
as well.
And the inaction that we saw, I
think, has
led to a catastrophic situation,
half-a-million
people killed, 11 million people
displaced,
a migration crisis that is
overwhelming the
institutions of Europe, our
closest allies.
And I do think -- I agree with
General Petraeus.
I think, in retrospect, when
people judge
this administration
historically, it will
be seen as the biggest stain on
this administration's
record.
PHILIP GORDON: I think that
summary of the
consequences of inaction is fair
and accurate.
No one who was involved with
this policy would
disagree that the consequences
of the road
traveled were poor.
But, again, we have to be
careful not to assume
that the alternative course of
action, using
military force, for example,
would have had
led to a better set of
circumstances.
It would be different
GEN.
DAVID PETRAEUS: I do think we
have to be a
little careful not to say that
it was either
this or either that, that it was
either all-out
military action to get rid of
Bashar or it
was nothing.
I do think there were
alternatives, as have
been discussed by the
participants.
Again, no guarantee that they
would have succeeded,
but it's hard to imagine the
situation could
be worse than it is right now.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we know
we're going to
be debating all three of these
places we have
talked about just now and the
rest of that
part of the world for a long
time to come.
For now, we thank all of you for
being here,
General David Petraeus,
Ambassador Eric Edelman,
Philip Gordon.
GEN.
DAVID PETRAEUS: Pleasure.
PHILIP GORDON: Good to be here.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you.
Now to the analysis of Shields
and Brooks.
That is syndicated columnist
Mark Shields
and New York Times columnist
David Brooks.
And welcome to you both.
There is so much to talk about,
but let's
start with talking about the
president-elect
and Russia.
We had the news today -- on top
of all the
confirmation that the Russians
interfered
in the U.S. election, today, we
learned -- and
we talked about earlier it on
the show -- David,
that General Michael Flynn had
phone conversations
with the Russian ambassador in
December, several
of them.
Tonight, we're learning that the
Senate Intelligence
Committee is going to expand
what was already
an investigation into the
Russian interference
into in election to look at any
contacts between
the Trump campaign and the
Russians and the
Clinton campaign, although the
main focus
is Donald Trump.
What do we make of all this?
DAVID BROOKS: I was first struck
by David
Ignatius' comment earlier in the
program that
they just could be trying to be
destabilize
the United States across the
board.
And that's a -- I hadn't heard
that thought
before and it's a live
possibility.
Putin is someone who has been
undermining
the norms of what we consider
the world order
since he got into power and in
increasing
success.
What's interesting about the
Trump administration
is how bitterly divided they are
in their
attitudes towards Putin.
Steve Bannon and General Flynn
have warm feelings.
Putin has been -- and with a lot
of the groups,
the conservative groups, the
more extreme
conservative groups that
underlie Trump, he's
a bit of a hero because he
speaks for traditional
values, he's against the global
institutions.
They see him as someone who has
been on the
defensive from an aggressive
E.U., an aggressive
NATO.
And there is a lot of sympathy
there, actually.
And then, if you look at the
more establishment
Republicans, they see him as
what I just described,
subversive of the world order.
And so to me the question will
be, will Trump
and Bannon control policy toward
the foreign
policy, or will everyone else
basically?
And my money is on everyone
else, because
I think Trump's attention span
is super low.
I don't think he has the
expertise to actually
run a foreign policy.
And at the end of the day -- and
I think this
is a major story of the Trump
administration
-- he's going to want the
affirmation of the
establishment, as he always has.
The reason he had Clintons at
his wedding
because he wants that
affirmation.
When he gets the chance to have
it, I think
he will bend gradually in that
direction.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How are you
looking at all
this?
MARK SHIELDS: Donald Trump is to
traditional
values what I am to marathon
running.
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: It just doesn't --
it doesn't
fit.
I have to say, Judy, I am
perplexed, and I
think an increasing number of
Republicans
are perplexed and actually
nervous about Donald
Trump and Russia, nervous in the
sense that
he is gratuitously giving
Democrats the national
security advantage, that they're
standing
up for the country.
We have testimony of General
Mattis, the nominee
for secretary of defense,
asserting that the
objective, the stated objective
and the mission
of Vladimir Putin's Russia is to
destabilize
the North Atlantic Alliance, and
he, who believes
in NATO and believes it's been
one of the
great alliances in modern
history, that Putin
represents a threat to this,
that Russia today
is nothing but a propaganda arm,
that General
Flynn went to celebrate its
anniversary, sitting
at Putin's table for money, paid
to show up.
So, I mean, these questions,
essentially,
they have just given it to the
Democrats to
stand up and say, wait a minute,
where do
you believe in this country,
plus the suspicions,
and real, about in fact the
involvement of
Russia in this election.
The question, the real moment of
truth is
going to arrive very shortly, a
couple of
weeks, when sanctions arrive on
Donald Trump's
-- President Donald Trump's desk
passed by
a Republican Congress.
Is he going to oppose those
sanctions?
What's he going to do?
I just think it's inexplicable
and irrational,
his policy on Russia.
DAVID BROOKS: I would say it's a
theory.
He has got a theory of it, which
is the theory
of UKIP in the United Kingdom,
the theory
of Le Pen in France, which is
that the global
establishment has basically
failed people,
and that, all around the world
-- it's a little
like Marxism in reverse --
global movement
is arising that's against these
institutions
which have failed people.
And Putin is part of that
movement.
And that's the theory of the
case.
I don't think it's true, but
they do have
a theory of what is happening.
And I don't know if they will be
able to enact
it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But David's
argument a moment
ago, Mark, is that the
establishment is going
to win out because Donald Trump,
he said,
just can't organize a foreign
policy.
MARK SHIELDS: I don't know.
That, of course -- you know, the
White House,
as Warren Harding said, and I
think accurately,
is an alchemist.
We find out the strengths, the
weaknesses
and the smarts and the dumbs of
whoever those
occupants are under the pressure
of the presidency.
I don't see -- I was encouraged
as a citizen
by the selection of General
Mattis, by the
nomination of him, by the
command of subject
matter he displayed, and his
independence,
independence of thought.
And so...
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we saw that
from several
of the...
MARK SHIELDS: We did.
We did.
JUDY WOODRUFF: ... choices.
MARK SHIELDS: Less convincing
from some others.
Mike Pompeo, who had been an
advocate of water-boarding
as a House member, has backed
off and said,
oh, Donald Trump would never --
if he ever
heard Donald Trump on the stump,
Donald Trump
was a champion of water-boarding
and more,
as he put it.
But, nevertheless, he did
establish that rule
of law.
JUDY WOODRUFF: David, just
quickly, you did
see a number of these Cabinet
choices, and
you're referring to that, put
some distance
between themselves.
DAVID BROOKS: Right.
And I think it was -- I agree
with Mark.
It was a good week, I think, for
the country
and, frankly, for the Trump
administration.
A lot of us expected a lot of
extremely confrontational
hearings this week.
And that really didn't happen.
They sailed through, by and
large.
And that's because they did
distance themselves.
They behaved like responsible --
even Tillerson,
who was probably the weakest,
because he just
doesn't know that much about
foreign policy.
But he apparently in the private
meetings
with the senators has made a
good impression
on people.
He's a professional.
He's obviously a very
intelligent, polished
man.
And so the other -- I hate to
praise Trump
so much, but I have always
wanted administrations
to admit, yes, we have
differences.
There's always been this locked
uniformity,
oh, we all think alike and that,
if we disagree,
it's somehow a scandal.
But, yes, people have
differences.
And Donald Trump didn't emerge
from the orthodoxy
of the Republican Party.
And so there's going to be
bigger differences
than normal.
And if they can have those
differences out
in the open, I actually think it
would be
kind of a good thing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you're right.
He tweeted today, this morning,
early, that
he thought it was a good thing
if they spoke
for themselves.
But back on Russia, quickly,
Mark, the civil
rights icon Congressman John
Lewis of Georgia
in an interview today with Chuck
Todd at NBC
said that Donald Trump is not --
he doesn't
view Donald Trump as a
legitimate president,
he said, because the Russians
interfered with
the U.S. election.
He said the results don't
represent legitimacy.
MARK SHIELDS: It's a legitimate
argument,
that Russia's involvement in our
election,
it's open to question whether,
in fact, it
was influential, determinate.
The fact that they tried and
were involved
and tried to influence and
subvert our democratic
processes is indisputable.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, you're saying
it's not
settled?
MARK SHIELDS: I don't -- no, but
I do think
that there is a certain irony
and perhaps
a little payback in the fact
that John Lewis,
a certified icon of the civil
rights movement,
questions the legitimacy of the
man who questioned
the legitimacy and led the
fight, falsely,
unfairly, and repeatedly
questioned the legitimacy
of Barack Obama as president.
There is perhaps a little sense
of getting
even here.
(CROSSTALK)
DAVID BROOKS: Whatever happened
to when we
-- they go low, we go high?
No, I think if you're going to
question the
legitimacy of somebody, you
better have some
evidence.
And John Lewis is obviously a
hero.
But the bias that, when we have
an election
result, has to be that the
election results
is legitimate.
And whatever the Russians did,
it didn't probably
affect the outcome.
If we actually have some
evidence to counter
that, then you can say it's a
legitimate -- but
the bias has always got to be to
respect the
process, to respect the voters
and to assume,
if they make a call, that some
deference has
to be paid, unless there is
evidence.
And as I understand it, John
Lewis, none of
us know whether the Russian
activity, which
was malevolent, had any huge
significant determining
effect.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Two more major
things I want
to ask both of you about.
The first one is what Donald
Trump said, Mark,
this week about his business
interests.
He said he's basically turning
everything
over to his sons, that it will
be a kind of
a blind trust.
Did he go far enough?
MARK SHIELDS: Of course he
didn't, Judy.
He said after eight years, he
will grade his
sons, and if they didn't perform
well, they're
fired, sort of an offhand line,
but showing
that he did have a continuing
interest.
There's never been a sense of
public service
about this man.
And I don't think there is in
this alleged
arrangement.
It's anything but a blind trust.
It's a seeing-eye trust.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
It's a blind trust.
I'm giving it to my closest
relatives.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes.
DAVID BROOKS: It's not really
serious.
JUDY WOODRUFF: He said he's not
going to talk
to them about it.
DAVID BROOKS: Yeah, right.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: He has a different
model.
I mean, most -- the way the laws
are envisioned,
they are for people who work in
the government
-- or work in a private sector,
and then they
cut it offer and they go to
public service.
And that's how you're supposed
to do it.
But he has a pre-modern
monarchic family structure.
His business is a monarchy with
family members
all around.
His administration is a monarchy
with family
members all around.
So the laws are just not going
to apply to
him.
And he will wind up with some
corruption problems,
probably.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Last question is
about the
man who Donald Trump is
succeeding as president,
Mark, and that's President
Obama.
He gave a farewell address in
his hometown
of Chicago this week.
It was a call to citizens to
pick up their,
I think, clipboards, he said,
and get involved.
MARK SHIELDS: And get out of
their bubbles.
I thought that was one of the
more -- that,
in fact, we have become bubbles,
whether,
as David has pointed out in the
past, sorting
ourselves into neighborhoods, or
places of
worship, or campuses, or
occupations.
And the venue just amazed me,
why he would
do a speech of this seriousness
and importance
in a crowd of 18,000.
I understand it was Chicago and
all the rest
of it.
But it is a reminder that the
difference today
from eight years ago, the sense
of hope and
pride in the nation, an
unrealistic hope,
and perhaps unrealistic
self-congratulations
on his election.
But he leaves at close to 60
percent approval,
at a time when confidence in
public institutions
is at its lowest, in private
institutions.
So he is a major figure going
forward.
And he's 15 years younger than
the man who
succeeds him, and he promises to
be engaged,
far more than going to write his
book or just
go into a paint lesson.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What did he leave
you with?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, I think we
saw in the
speech an outstanding man.
And he leaves this presidency
with the respect
of almost everybody as a human
being.
I think he will get very high
marks, as he
mentioned in the speech, for the
handling
of the financial crisis, the
auto bailout,
all that stuff.
We're in much better shape than
we were.
I think his foreign policy will
be regarded
more failure than success, in
part because
of reasons we heard earlier.
And I think, from a progressive
point of view,
to have a Democratic Congress
and a Democratic
White House, and to have spent
the time on
Obamacare, which had real
benefits, 20 million
insured, but not on inequality,
was a major
cost to the Democratic Party,
costing them
their majorities, but also a bit
of a cost
to the country, because it
didn't address
the fundamental issues that led
to Donald
Trump and that led to a lot of
unhappiness,
just the continued widening
inequality.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And inequality,
you're referring
to?
DAVID BROOKS: Income inequality,
social inequality,
all the things that really have
shaped this
whole election year.
It is a fact that these
problems, this sense
of fragmentation and
segmentation happened
and were exacerbated, got worse
under President
Obama's...
JUDY WOODRUFF: He has seven more
days in office.
And we thank both of you, David
Brooks, Mark
Shields.
MARK SHIELDS: Thank you, Judy.
STEVE INSKEEP: Finally tonight,
a new movie
navigates tricky terrain,
revisiting recent,
and painful, history.
Here's Jeffrey Brown.
JEFFREY BROWN: It's a moment
still painfully
fresh for many Americans, April
2013, the
Boston Marathon, with some
30,000 runners
taking to the streets for the
26.2-mile race,
when, suddenly, everything
changed, an explosion
at the finish line on Boylston
Street, 12
seconds later, another.
Three people were dead and more
than 260 wounded.
And so began a panicked search
for the perpetrators
that shut down the city.
ACTOR: Every inch of this city
is getting
searched.
JEFFREY BROWN: That drama
unfolds in the new
film "Patriots Day," starring
Mark Wahlberg
in a role stitched together from
multiple
Boston police officers'
experiences.
The film was written and
directed by Peter
Berg.
PETER BERG, Director, "Patriots
Day": To me,
the Boston Marathon is a pretty
profound moment
in American history.
And the lessons that can be
learned from the
way that community came
together, from the
way the police and the FBI
worked together
so effectively to solve that
crime is something,
I think, worth examining.
JEFFREY BROWN: Other characters
are based
on real individuals, such as
Boston Police
Commissioner Ed Davis, played by
John Goodman,
who wants investigators to
release photos
to the public of Tamerlan and
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev,
the prime suspects.
KEVIN BACON, Actor: I understand
Boston, but
I can't just snap my fingers.
This decision goes all the way
up to the attorney
general.
JOHN GOODMAN, Actor: Then give
me his number.
I'll call him right now.
This is my (EXPLETIVE DELETED)
city, Rick!
JEFFREY BROWN: Davis retired
later in 2013.
ED DAVIS, Former Boston Police
Commissioner:
It's been very interesting to
watch the process.
And I have to keep telling
myself, it's not
a documentary, it's a movie.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes, you mean at
moments where
you wonder what?
ED DAVIS: Sure.
You can put words in one
person's mouth that
was spoken by someone else, and
you want to
say, no, no, it didn't happen
exactly like
that.
But when you take a step back
and you realize
that it's a story being told for
the public
about the complexity of this
investigation
and really about the victims,
about the city,
and about the police officers
that heroically
responded to it, they did a
great job in really
catching the essence of what
happened.
JEFFREY BROWN: How concerned
were you, though,
about getting it right, you
know, on weighing
the needs of the Hollywood
drama, right, vs.
the news, the actual facts?
PETER BERG: I felt that, if we
got it right,
if we just told the truth, we
wouldn't have
to worry about Hollywood drama,
or we wouldn't
have to worry about action or
tension or plot
twists or heroism, or any of the
things that
I guess you look for in a
traditional Hollywood
story.
We felt, from the research we
did, that there
was plenty of inspiration and
drama to be
told.
JEFFREY BROWN: For Peter Berg,
"Patriots Day"
is the third nonfiction,
ripped-from-the-headlines
project he's worked on with
Wahlberg, following
2013's "Lone Survivor," which
follows a Navy
SEAL team on a mission in
Afghanistan and
2016's "Deepwater Horizon,"
which recounts
the explosion on the BP drilling
platform
in 2010 that killed 11 men and
spilled nearly
3.2 million barrels of oil into
the Gulf of
Mexico.
Before, those Berg directed the
film "Friday
Night Lights" based on the
nonfiction book
nonfiction book by Buzz
Bissinger, and served
as executive producer on the
popular TV drama
of the same name.
How do you decide what to
tackle?
PETER BERG: I get attracted to
something for
a variety of reasons.
I'm obviously attracted to
nonfiction.
I'm attracted to tales of men
and women doing
their jobs under duress.
I find that interesting.
I don't know why.
I just do.
And when I start to hone in on a
story, I
generally see how hard it sticks
and how easy
it is to dismiss.
JEFFREY BROWN: "Patriots Day"
has received
generally positive reviews.
But like Berg's other recent
films, its proximity
to actual events raises an old
question.
Do you think it's too soon to be
telling the
story?
ED DAVIS: I think that's a
decision that's
made individually by people.
I talked to a couple that went
to see it,
and the husband, who was at the
finish line,
said it was a cathartic
experience for him
and he was very happy that the
film was done.
And the wife was upset by it and
couldn't
stay for the whole thing.
So, I think it goes person by
person.
PETER BERG: I don't think it's
too early to
examine it.
I think, if we waited much
longer, it would
unfortunately start to be almost
an irrelevant
story, because the news cycle
moves so quickly.
Already, since we have filmed
the movie, there
have been at least six major
attacks, and
it's certainly no stop in sight.
JEFFREY BROWN: You are, in a
sense, defining
some history for many people who
might see
the story now through your eyes.
So, do you feel some personal
responsibility
to get it right, to think about
how it might
inflame passions, or help people
think about...
PETER BERG: Yes.
Yes, of course.
I do.
And I think, if I feel a
personal responsibility
in terms of presenting a thesis
or something
I want an audience to take away,
it's certainly
not that we need to get rid of
every Muslim
in this country.
It's certainly not a commentary
on law enforcement,
although I think we're pretty
clear in our
support of law enforcement,
particularly in
the way they handled themselves
during that
period of time.
It's a responsibility for making
sure that
we understand that these acts of
terrorism
don't achieve what the
terrorists think they're
going to achieve.
They don't destroy us.
They don't break us apart.
We see the very best of human
beings rise
to the surface.
JEFFREY BROWN: "Patriots Day"
opens today
in theaters across the country.
From New York, I'm Jeffrey Brown
for the "PBS
NewsHour."
STEVE INSKEEP: If you have ever
been changed
by a book, you may relate to
author Will Schwalbe.
Jeff talks with him online about
"Books for
Living" on works that affected
his life.
And we want to hear from you
about books that
affected yours.
That's on our Art Beat page.
Find that and more at
PBS.org/NewsHour.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And tonight on
"Washington
Week": a closer look at why
president-elect
Donald Trump sees Russia as a
strategic partner
for the U.S., rather than a
global threat.
That's later on "Washington
Week."
STEVE INSKEEP: Tomorrow night on
"PBS NewsHour
Weekend": inside a camp that
provides safe
haven for homeless veterans.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Steve Inskeep.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Great to have you
with us.
STEVE INSKEEP: Oh, honored to be
here.
Thank you very much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Have a great weekend.
Thank you, and good night.
STEVE INSKEEP: Good night.